=head1 NAME

libmcp2210 - MCP2210 Support Library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  -lmcp2210

  #include <mcp2210.h>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<libmcp2210> is a fairly low level support library for MCP2210 USB-to-SPI
bridge devices. It provides interfaces to all functionality provided by the device.
For the communication with the device there are routines with partly overlaying
functionality, convenience functions layered on top of lower level functions.

Refer to the device data sheet for the description of device operation.

The manual is structured into following sections:

=over

=item L<libmcp2210_general(3)>

General Functionality. Routines to issue the commands and deal with the error
conditions.

=item L<libmcp2210_eeprom(3)>

EEPROM memory access routines.

=item L<libmcp2210_status(3)>

Device Status routines.

=item L<libmcp2210_chip(3)>

Chip Control routines.

=item L<libmcp2210_gpio(3)>

GPIO Control routines.

=item L<libmcp2210_spi(3)>

SPI settings and transaction control.

=item L<libmcp2210_usb(3)>

USB key settings.

=back

=head1 BUGS

All communication and delays are blocking.

No libusb support.

No udev support for device discovery.

=head1 AUTHORS

Copyright (C) 2016  Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>

The source code repository can be obtained from
L<https://github.com/lkundrak/mcp2210>. Bug fixes and feature
ehancements licensed under same conditions as btkbdd are welcome
via GIT pull requests.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<mcp2210-util(8)>, L<http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/22288A.pdf>
