=head1 NAME

mcp2210-util - MCP2210 Utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mcp2210> I<device>

[ --runtime | --nvram | --both ]

[ --dump-all ]
[ --dump-nvram ]
[ --dump-nvram-usb ]
[ --dump-status ]
[ --dump-runtime ]
[ --dump-runtime-gpio ]
[ --dump-spi ]
[ --dump-chip ]
[ --dump-eeprom ]

[ --on | --off I<pin> ]
[ --out | --in I<pin> ]
[ --val I<pin> ]
[ --dir I<pin> ]
[ --gpio | --cs | --func I<pin> ]

[ --default-on | --default-off I<pin> ]
[ --default-val I<pin> ]
[ --default-out | --default-in I<pin> ]
[ --default-dir I<pin> ]

[ --gp6-count-high | --gp6-count-low | --gp6-count-rising | --gp6-count-falling ]

[ --usb-wakeup | --no-usb-wakeup ]
[ --spi-release | --no-spi-release ]
[ --lock-none | --lock-password | --lock-permanent ]

[ --password I<password> ]
[ --bit-rate I<rate> ]
[ --active-cs-on | --active-cs-off I<pin> ]
[ --active-cs-val I<pin> ]
[ --idle-cs-on | --idle-cs-off I<pin> ]
[ --idle-cs-val I<pin> ]
[ --cs-to-data-delay I<us> ]
[ --data-to-cs-delay I<us> ]
[ --byte-delay I<us> ]
[ --tx-size I<bytes> ]
[ --spi-mode I<mode> ]
[ --vendor-id I<id> ]
[ --product-id I<id> ]
[ --host-powered | --no-host-powered ]
[ --self-powered | --no-self-powered ]
[ --remote-wakeup | --no-remote-wakeup ]
[ --host-current I<uA> ]
[ --usb-manufacturer I<string> ]
[ --usb-product I<string> ]
[ --unlock I<password> ]
[ --spi-tx I<data> ]
[ --spi-cancel ]

...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This tool issues commands to the MCP2210 device specified with the I<device> 
argument. I<device> needs to be a Linux HIDRAW device (F</dev/hidraw*>).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--runtime> | B<--nvram> | B<--both>

Set the backing memory to operate on with chip and SPI settings.
Affects the following options, but not the preceding ones.

Defaults to B<--runtime>.

=item B<--dump-all>

Dump all available information for the device in human readable form.

=item B<--dump-nvram>

Dump the power-on configuration for the device.

=item B<--dump-nvram-usb>

Dump the USB key settings for the device.

=item B<--dump-status>

Dump the device status.

=item B<--dump-runtime>

Dump the runtime configuration for the device.

=item B<--dump-runtime-gpio>

Dump the runtime status of the GPIO pins.

=item B<--dump-spi>

Dump the SPI configuration (runtime or power-on as selected).

=item B<--dump-chip>

Dump the chip configuration (runtime or power-on as selected).

=item B<--dump-eeprom>

Dump the EEPROM memory contents.

=item B<--on> | B<--off> I<pin>

Turn the given GPIO pin on or off at runtime.

=item B<--out> | B<--in> I<pin>

Change the GPIO pin direction at runtime.

=item B<--val> I<pin>

Read a value of GPIO pin at runtime.

=item B<--dir> I<pin>

Read the direction of GPIO pin at runtime.

=item B<--gpio> | B<--cs> | B<--func> I<pin>

Change the pin functionality.

=item B<--default-on> | B<--default-off> I<pin>

Change the default value for the pin.

=item B<--default-val> I<pin>

Read the default value for the pin.

=item B<--default-out> | B<--default-in> I<pin>

Change the default direction for the pin.

=item B<--default-dir> I<pin>

Read the default direction for the pin.

=item B<--gp6-count-high> | B<--gp6-count-low> | B<--gp6-count-rising> | B<--gp6-count-falling>

Change the GP6 pin count mode.

=item B<--usb-wakeup> | B<--no-usb-wakeup>

Configure whether the USB remote wakeup capability is on.

=item B<--spi-release> | B<--no-spi-release>

Configure whether the SPI bus is released between transfers.

=item B<--lock-none> | B<--lock-password> | B<--lock-permanent>

Enable or disable the locking mode of the device.

Caution: B<--lock-permanent> can not be turned off!

=item B<--password> I<password>

Change the device password.

=item B<--bit-rate> I<rate>

Change the SPI bit rate.

=item B<--active-cs-on> | B<--active-cs-off> I<pin>

Control whether the pin is on or off when used as CS during the SPI transaction.

=item B<--active-cs-val> I<pin>

Read whether the pin is on or off when used as CS during the SPI transaction.

=item B<--idle-cs-on> | B<--idle-cs-off> I<pin>

Control whether the pin is on or off when used as CS outside the SPI transaction.

=item B<--idle-cs-val> I<pin>

Read whether the pin is on or off when used as CS outside the SPI transaction.

=item B<--cs-to-data-delay> I<us>

Change the delay between assertion of CS pin and the first data bit.

=item B<--data-to-cs-delay> I<us>

Change the delay between the last data bit and deassertion of CS pin.

=item B<--byte-delay> I<us>

Change the delay between the bytes.

=item B<--tx-size> I<bytes>

Change the configured SPI transaction size.

=item B<--spi-mode> I<mode>

Change the configured SPI mode.

=item B<--vendor-id> I<id>

Change the USB vendor id in the NVRAM.

=item B<--product-id> I<id>

Change the USB product id in the NVRAM.

=item B<--host-powered> | B<--no-host-powered>

Enable or disable the indication of powering fro mthe USB host.

=item B<--self-powered> | B<--no-self-powered>

Enable or disable the indication of self-powering.

=item B<--remote-wakeup> | B<--no-remote-wakeup>

Enable or disable the indication of USB remote wakeup capability.

=item B<--host-current> I<uA>

Configure the indicated current draw from the USB host.

=item B<--usb-manufacturer> I<string>

Configure the USB manufacturer string.

=item B<--usb-product> I<string>

Configure the USB product string.

=item B<--unlock> I<password>

Attempt to unlock the device with given password.

=item B<--spi-tx> I<data>

Transfer the data on the SPI bus.

=item B<--spi-cancel>

Cancel the ongoing SPI transaction.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUE

Zero indicates success, non-zero (currently always 1) indicates failure.

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item B<mcp2210-util --dump-all>

Barf the device state.

=item B<mcp2210-util --both --gpio 8 --on 8 --out 8 --default-on 8 --default-out 8>

Turn on the GPIO pin 8 and ensure it's on on power-on.

=item B<mcp2210-util --spi-mode 0 --bit-rate 4000 --spi-tx 'Hello World!'>

Transfer a string on SPI.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Too many options.

=head1 AUTHORS

Copyright (C) 2016  Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>

The source code repository can be obtained from
L<https://github.com/lkundrak/mcp2210>. Bug fixes and feature
ehancements licensed under same conditions as btkbdd are welcome
via GIT pull requests.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<libmcp2210(7)>, L<http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/22288A.pdf>
